just going to jump in there IAH I'm
sorry if we just look at the screen here
you can see uh big explosions taking
place above uh above Gaza right now and
earlier we were talking about this this
potential assault on Al's hospital and
that's that's not sure exactly what that
is it's some kind kind of flare isn't it
that's exactly and that's where I'm
trying to make the link actually if the
Israeli government does not care about
their own prisoners with the their
families protesting by the the House of
the Prime Minister how would they care
about the gazans how would they care
about the Palestinians in the AL
hospital so this actually gives us an
indication that we should take alud uh
bombing is more seriously right because
this government is basically is is is
seeing itself that's above the law
that's being uh protected by the Western
leaders support and they're doing you
know they're throwing everything up
upside down with the uh international
law on what they can do so that's why I
think the two issues are are totally or
closely linked between the prisoners
exchange and the continuous bombing and
the ground Invasion that they're making
and what Israeli government can do as a
result of that because this also if
Israel what the Israeli government is is
a true of what they're saying that using
the Ala hospital as uh place you of
operations by Hamas then we should
expect there is probably also that
Israeli prisoners are there if it this
proves to be true but again that's the
problem is that of the Israeli
government is not not looking at all any
of these factors and they're just driven
by the collective punishment and the
genocide and the ethnic cleansing that
they are conducting in Gaza regardless
of what the price for the prisoners or
for any other uh Palestinian Factor
people that whether it's in the H health
somewhere else and just again we're
looking at these pictures that it's
extraordin I can't imagine what it must
be like if you're on the ground right
beneath that not exactly sure what it is
I'm not expert enough to know we we're
trying to find out exactly what's going
on here but it had the appearance of
some kind of flare but flares would
normally dissipate this seems to be just
carrying on yeah but also there is the
possibility Israel also used fist for it
in in uh bombs in Gaza in the past so
this could be also one of them
uh or lighting bonds or what's called
right uh or that we that they targeted a
u you know they that they hit a huge or
a big Target in Gaza that is producing
whatever it's very evident that
something pretty major is is happening
and we've been very concerned about Al's
Hospital in in our coverage talking
about it and the fact that Israel had
told everybody to leave and to evacuate
what 14,000 people are Sheltering there
I think hundreds of patients doctors
administrative staff and so forth all
staying put so we're holding our breath
hoping that uh there isn't a strike on
that hospital itself we heard a comment
earlier um that this is as serious now
as the Cuba Missile Crisis in a sense
and do you do you get a view that we're
at a a critical juncture at this moment
you know as the the window of as Israel
would perceive it of opportunity to act
diminishes with every Palestinian death
and and the the growth as you talked
about of the big protest that we're
seeing and and the slight change in tone
calling for humanitarian trues and so
forth that that actually might bring
this to some kind of denum well first of
all I think it's yes I agree it's very
similar to the Cuban Missile Crisis but
there are two levels of decision making
U here the difference is because during
the Cuban Missile Crisis we had John
Kennedy who was in charge in full
control and was able to make decision
decisions so that was the thing but here
we have two levels of decision- making
we have Israel that by the way does not
care even if it's if this explodes to be
a regional or even a third world war
they they they don't care that's not in
part of their calculations because again
they just enjoy the support and the
coverage that they receive from the
Biden Administration so that's why
they're proceeding irrespective of the
consequences for others that's happening
in the region or or by the way to the
United States itself and to the US
interest in the region because this is
the second level of decision making that
I'm referring to here where it's the
Biden Administration the Biden
administration's larger foreign policy
in the world it's much bigger than the
current War it it has the Ukraine it has
China Russia and so many other things so
the US Administration has been very
strict and very clear about it's against
our national interest is for this war to
expand to the region okay IAH back with
you in a moment let's go to TK abom in
KH Unis in Gaza and T I don't know if
you can see what we can see on screen
here this blinding yellow light looks to
be some kind of flare that's hovering
above just casting this huge pole of
light across Gaza uh what more do you
know about
it well uh as you can clearly uh see at
the back of ground of the Ukraine on
right now a different bombardment took
place in the territory as there are
going there are ongoing fire exchange
between Palestinian Fighters and the
Israeli occupation trops near the
borders and uh specifically in the
Northern areas of uh B hon City in areas
uh Crossing border where are there are
clashes have been erupted between uh the
Israeli ground Invasion troops and the
Palestinian Fighters the Israeli ongoing
strikes continue relentlessly uh
targeting several areas in the territory
starting with the uh Central areas of
the Gaza Strip in Taha neighborhood
where uh there are three residential
Towers where level to the ground uh in
that complex also the surrounding areas
of alot Hospital were previously
bombarded by the Israeli ongoing strikes
it's also worth mentioning that the
Israeli occupation has threatened to
bomb the Orthodox Cultural Center which
contains and host more than 500
Palestinians who were displaced from the
houses uh and the the uh General
director of alud hospital has told Al
jazer that there are more
than 160,000 Palestinians are residing
in the surrounding areas and even inside
the alotz hospital so any kind of
bombardment for the hospital will bring
us to a new Massacre that will claim the
lives of thousands of Palestinians and
will BR catastrophic consequences on the
humanitarian level also the attacks
continued in the uh Eastern areas of uh
of the um
T and even the the far west of B where
there's going where there is a ground
troop is trying to infl rate to the
territory had been confronted by the
Palestinian Fighters the clashes are
continuing till this current moment
waiting for further confirmation about
the uh the latest updates that on the
ground in terms of the number of
casualties in both sides uh T tell us
more about the uh the numbers of people
who've come down to uh the south of Gaza
because of course the order was to
evacuate from Al K's hospital and it was
previously ordered uh in weeks before
that to what degree have people come
down to the South and and not
returned that the house is moving
forward to the southern areas of the
territory uh the southern areas of the
Gaza Strip become overcrowded of people
who are really residing in different uh
shelters Affiliated to the United
Nations and others are residing in the
surrounding areas of Gaza different
hospital
in the south of the territory also um a
great number of people did not find even
space for them to live even uh either in
the hospital or in the um in the onoa
shs which become overwhelmed and
overcrowded with people uh more than
600,000 Palestinians are residing in the
honor athletic chter so uh a number of
people decided to come back again to the
north and Central Gaza uh in order to uh
remain in the houses as there is no any
safe place in the territory M while
these areas in the south of the Gaza
Strip witness the same level of
bombardment in the Norther territories
all right T we'll leave it there for the
moment thanks very much indeed Tark Abu
AUM uh let's bring in yumna El said
who's in Gaza City so yumna I imagining
that what is happening with those big
flares lighting up the sky is happening
near you is that right yes yes I can see
them right here from the window and
usually when we see these uh uh uh oh
second
okay so when we see these uh light bombs
being thrown like that in the sky and
all the bombardments that you can see
around us now and the smoke everywhere
we know that these areas where these
light bombs are being thrown are going
to be severely severely bombarded uh
afterward now of course the Gaza Strip
is falling in a complete darkness it's
completely dark outside there's no light
at all so so uh the Israeli military
uses these uh light bombs to actually uh
throw in the areas that it is going to
Target before it targets Just To See
Clearly where it is going to be
targeting I can see them in in in all
all in front of me in that line all in
front of me right now and this is very
very close it's in neighborhood this
should be uh basically very close also
to the hospitals in the area
around the hospital as
well and Y tell me beforehand we were
last time we spoke to you there were it
was bombardment was continuing at that
point as well uh because it seemed to be
the neighborhood around Al's hospital
that was being targeted uh people at the
hospital had been ordered to go more
than 12,000 uh people taking shelter
there plus all the patients tell us
about
that yes indeed so since the beginning
of uh the early hours of this day
hospital was again for the fourth time
warned to evacuate before it is going to
be bombarded by the Israeli military
this time the Israeli military uh called
the people Sheltering in the hospital
itself not just the uh director and the
medical staff like all the other times
before uh but told them that they are
risking their lives by staying in the
hospital and that the hospital will be
bombed so uh it asked them to evacuate
of course none of the 14,000 people
including over 400 patients have uh
evacuated or left the hospital uh the
director of the hospital told me clearly
that there is no means to evacuate that
great number of people there is no
transportation in the Gaza Strip there's
no fuel for transportation and there is
no place in gazda city that is supposed
to be more safer in a hospital that
people can uh shelter in now thousands
more than that number 14,000 uh
thousands of them are in a shifa complex
which is just a little bit uh uh in in
the Gaza City itself in the heart of
Gaza City in a shifa street it's uh
couple of kilometers away from a uh
hospital as we are talking about the G
STP I can see a huge bomart I can see
the Flames now
um missiles are falling intensively in
that
area you just just to clarify that area
where you think the missiles you can see
missiles falling into whereabouts is
that in relation to Al's
hospital that is all in the area where
around surrounding the AL hospital and
that's what the the people staying at
the hospital and the the medical staff
in the hospital have been telling us all
day that uh the bment are around the
area of the hospital just about an hour
ago the bment got closer to the hospital
closer to the area of the hospital in uh
much more intense uh warning towards
them to teare them to evacuate the
hospital can you tell from where you are
if if the hospital itself is being hit
at this point or is it too hard to say
from here from where you
are no the hospital hasn't yet been hit
have heard it if it was hit we can see
that the light bombs and the
bombardments that are ongoing now are
still around the hospital in the area
that is surrounding the
hospital all right y we'll leave it
there for the moment back with you
shortly no doubt thanks in the meantime
youel side there in Gaza City